CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Follow the local provisioning instructions as first step is **strongly
suggested** before proceed further.

* [Local provisioning](#local-provisioning)
* [Writing code](#writing-code)
    * [Coding standard](#coding-standard)
    * [Test coverage](#test-coverage)
* [Committing code](#committing-code)
    * [Committing guidelines](#committing-guidelines)
* [Contact us](#contact-us)

## Local provisioning

See [here](docs/local-provisioning.md) for details about the local provisioning.

## Writing code

### Coding standard

Laravel's [coding standard](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/contributions#coding-style)
must be respected

### Test coverage

Any new feature **must** be covered with a new integration test.

Any feature change **should be reflected** in an integration test update.

## Committing code

* Fork the <a href="https://https://github.com/Multidialogo/standup-companion" target="_blank">Standup companion</a> 
repository
* Starting from the develop branch, make your feature branch as git-flow's standards.
* Implement your feature
* Push your changes to the forked repository 
* Make a pull request that targets Multidialogo/standup-companion's develop branch

### Committing guidelines

Limit commits to the most granular change that makes sense.
This means, use frequent small commits rather than infrequent large
commits. For example, if implementing feature X requires a small change
to Y, first commit the change to Y, then commit feature X in a separate
commit.

## Contact us

If you have any questions, feel free to ask us at engineering@multidialogo.it

Commit message:

Explain why and how to start with local provisioning

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Follow the local provisioning instructions as first step is **strongly
suggested** before proceed further.

* [Local provisioning](#local-provisioning)
* [Writing code](#writing-code)
    * [Coding standard](#coding-standard)
    * [Test coverage](#test-coverage)
* [Committing code](#committing-code)
    * [Committing guidelines](#committing-guidelines)
* [Contact us](#contact-us)

## Local provisioning

This project is provided with all the tools needed to the software full working on your local workstation we call this 
set of tools and procedures *Local provisioning*.

Local provisioning MUST NOT be considered just a facility to use to make the development easier but a requirement to 
contribute to this project.

Building and testing code on a unified environment guarantees that software will build and run the same way it will in 
production on the contributor workstation.

So local provisioning is the place where start to look and work around before starting with contribution.

More detailed instruction to start provision the project in local are available [here](docs/local-provisioning.md).

## Writing code

### Coding standard

Laravel's [coding standard](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/contributions#coding-style)
must be respected

### Test coverage

Any new feature **must** be covered with a new integration test.

Any feature change **should be reflected** in an integration test update.

## Committing code

* Fork the <a href="https://https://github.com/Multidialogo/standup-companion" target="_blank">Standup companion</a> 
repository
* Starting from the develop branch, make your feature branch as git-flow's standards.
* Implement your feature
* Push your changes to the forked repository 
* Make a pull request that targets Multidialogo/standup-companion's develop branch

### Committing guidelines

Limit commits to the most granular change that makes sense.
This means, use frequent small commits rather than infrequent large
commits. For example, if implementing feature X requires a small change
to Y, first commit the change to Y, then commit feature X in a separate
commit.

## Contact us

If you have any questions, feel free to ask us at engineering@multidialogo.it
